                           Fourmilab Target

                              User Guide

The Fourmilab Target can be used with any kind of projectile.  It
co-operates with the Rocket to provide scoring and permit bombing
competitions.  You can set up the target or multiple targets in any
locations and orientations you wish.  When used as a bombing target, it
is usually placed flat on the ground.

Once you've set up the target, you can drop anvil bombs toward it and,
when you hit the target, the impact location is marked with a
hemispherical hit marker with a different colour for each person
dropping bombs.  A score from 1 to 10 is computed based on how close
you hit to the bull's eye.  The target displays a floating text “leader
board” which shows the number of hits by all avatars who have hit the
target in the last five minutes, along with their total scores and the
colour of their hit markers.  Hit markers are automatically deleted
after 30 seconds.  The target communicates hits back to the Rocket
which dropped the anvil so that it can display the number of throws,
hits, and the total score from hits in the pilot's floating text
control panel.

The target will also record impacts from other objects, so you may use
it in games with other projectile launchers.  It will maintain the
leader board, but scores will not be communicated back to the launcher.

The target accepts commands sent via local chat, listening by default
on channel 1307 (by legend, the year of William Tell's marksmanship).
The following commands may be sent by any user who has hit the target
within the last five minutes.

    Clear
        The user's hit count and score are reset to zero, and the
        user is removed from the leader board.  You can also clear
        the scores shown by the target and in the Rocket's control
        panel with the “Set target clear” command sent to the
        Rocket in local chat.

    Scores
        The scores from the leader board are sent back to the user
        on local chat.  This is handy when users are aiming at
        the target from a distance sufficiently far that the floating
        text is not visible to them.

The following commands may be used only by the owner of the target.

    Channel n
        The target will listen for commands on local chat channel n.

    Clear all
        All hits and scores will be reset to zero and the leader board
        removed.

    Restart
        Reset the script.  Everything, including the chat channel
        number on which the target listens, will be reset to their
        default values. If you manually move, scale, or rotate the
        target with the viewer's “Edit” facility, it's wise to Restart
        the script before using it.

    Set
        Set a variety of variables affecting the behaviour of the target.

            Set bang on/off
                Controls whether the target makes the bang sound when hit.

            Set flash on/off
                Controls whether the target shows an explosion when hit.

            Set legend on/off
                Shows or hides the leader board.  When hidden, a player
                may still see the scores by sending the Scores command.

            Set trace on/off
                Enable debugging output (sent to the owner on local chat)
                intended for developers working on the script.

    Status
        Display a variety of status information, including the target's
        position, the list of known users, the list of those who have
        hit the target in the last five minutes, and the above settings.

The Target has a menu which may be displayed by touching the target at
any point.  The menu allows submitting many of the chat commands
described above.  If the target is touched by a user other than its
owner, only the commands available to non-owners will be shown in the
menu.
